---
title: The freelancing journey
date: '2023-05-02T06:00:00.000Z'
---

Around last year I started freelancing on Upwork, and I remembered that getting my first contract was tough. I submitted many proposals, and they still need to be answered, and for the few that did, they were not actual jobs. They were pyramid schemes that asked you to pay to earn. And that was not legit. Furthermore, I wanted to get jobs in my field. Still, I became desperate and applied to jobs unrelated to my field, like marketing. I only had two months of internship experience then, so who would want to hire me? I was only applying to intern or entry-level positions or projects. I was not confident with my profile, and not getting any answers made it bad.

I was lucky enough to get one of my proposals answered, though. My first gig was a position as a Go Developer for the parsing stages of a new programming language. So I got an answer and was lucky again since I applied for a Game Development Intern, not a Go developer. Still, since I wrote that I have experience with Go, I was asked some questions about it. When I wrote that I had experience, I did not mean that I had work experience but just experience, which was just from time in college. I got that advice from my instructor that we all have experience if we've done and it only sometimes has to be professional experience unless stated explicitly. And it worked. I answered a few questions with the human resources personnel. Then he offered me the position of Go Developer. However, I needed more confidence to tell the human resources personnel I  needed training. I accepted the offer, and then I was introduced to my supervisor. This was where I was asked if I had experience as a backend developer. I said I only had frontend experience so that you could imagine that. 

So, I freelanced for that client from the end of May to the end of December, and it was a lot of learning, and I can see how much improvement I've made from those lines of code I wrote. Before starting, I had a lot of noobish coding habits, like writing everything in one big file and not writing a lot of functionalities in one function to bad short naming for functions. It wasn't very pleasant, and now I understand why it is done the way it is. 


So after that, I was left without a gig, but I knew I needed to prepare since freelancing is not a stable job like traditional jobs. So went on YouTube and read a lot about how to get clients on Upwork. So one area I'm glad I should have done was to follow the crowd. Everyone advertised themselves as React.js or Next.js developers. At the same time, I wanted to do Hugo, and that was a good decision since everyone knows that those are in high demand and many people also learn those skills. So there was high demand and high competition, and because of that, a second client found me, and we started working. My second client's projects were Hugo projects. I worked for the client for around three projects, tried to give the client the best services, and got 5-star reviews in return. And around the first gig, I finally got the rising talent badge, which is a big deal on Upwork and opened many opportunities. And to be honest, I was still sending proposals, and I got more answers this time, but none of them passed my vetting process for good clients. 

After completing three projects, however, I was contacted for a Hugo Developer position and invited to an interview. So he asked me if I understood the Hugo project he had on screen, and I passed it. He probably saw the reviews from my previous projects. That's why he needed a Hugo developer, which there's a little. And after passing 13 weeks of 100% Job success, I got the Top Rated Badge. I tested if I got more profile views or got more responses from the proposal, and both of them did have any improvement. 

Freelancing takes time, and you'll get there but don't expect it'll be quick. And also, do what you like. You never know what will be in demand, and doing something you want in the mean would be more enjoyable. You should never expect freelancing to be stable; it should be a side job if you're starting. Expect a suitable profile to be something other than a magical way of getting jobs. It would help if you still put in the effort. Overall, I hope this helps you, and if you have any questions, let me know. This is my first blog post so it won't look good, and my grammar won't be good. Thanks for reading!



